This project is part of FIWARE and has been made in collaboration with the TM Forum.

# Business API Framework: non functional test guidelines

The Business API Ecosystem is a joint component made up of the FIWARE Business Framework and a set of APIs (and its reference implementations) provided by the TMForum. This component allows the monetization of different kind of assets (both digital and physical) during the whole service life cycle, from offering creation to its charging, accounting and revenue settlement and sharing. It is available at its GitHub repository.

The description of the non functional tests carried out on this implementation is also published via the GitHub repository at Fiware/test.NonFunctional.


## Testing environment

For the testing environment, is needed:

A machine for the deployment of the GEri to be tested, Business API Ecosystem. We recommend to use the Docker compilation, where you can find everything necessary to run this environment.

A machine for JMeter, the tool used to inject load and for simulating the client and collecting the results generated by Business API Ecosystem.

## Test execution 

### Preliminary setup 

Once the HW necessary for the test described previously at "Testing Environmment" chapter have been setup, the following preliminary steps need to be accomplished before to start the test process: In order to do the installation of Business API Ecosystem, a Docker instance is needed.

## Testing step by step 

The test of Business API Ecosystem must be done in two steps:

Script configuration:
Depending on the scenario to execute (stress, stability), number of threads, ramp-up and test duration must be configured. Host IP must be configured too. For this purpose, the following User Defined variables in the Jmeter scripts (Create_new_catalog__stress.jmx, Create_new_category__stress and Create_new_catalog_and_category_estabilidad.jmx) must be configured:

* HOST -> IP or hostname of the host where Business API Ecosystem is deployed.
* PORT -> Port where Business API Ecosystem is listening.
* HOST_IDM -> IP or hostname of the host where Identity Management Keyrock is deployed.
* PORT_IDM -> Port where Identity Management Keyrock is listening.

* email -> Admin email used for login
* pass -> Admin password (for email) used for login
* catalog_name -> First part for the new Catalog name will be created (this name will be composed by this first part and another one with sequenced numbers.)
* category_name -> First part for the new Category name will be created (this name will be composed by this first part and another one with sequenced numbers.)
* index -> This is used as counter to complete the "catalog_name" variable.
* description -> Used as description when a new Catalog is created.

Furthermore, the number of threads, the ramp up and the test duration must be configured. It is recommended to use the planificator from the threads group. The duration for the stress tests was 25 minutes, and 6 hours in the stability case.

Finally, in order to get the results, the path to the results file must be configured in the Simple Data Writer from the script.

Script execution:

For executing the script, the following command must be typed in the jmeter bin folder:

`./jmeter.sh -n -t /path/to/script/scriptName.jmx`

It´s recommended to execute the command in background and nohup mode:

`nohup ./jmeter.sh -n -t /path/to/script/scriptName.jmx &`

It´s highly recommended to use a hardware resources monitoring tool, in order to measure things like memory and CPU usages, free memory, etc.

## Expected results

As output from the script, a .dat file (in csv format) is generated. This file can be used for plotting different kinds of charts, like threads number, response times, number of errores, responses per second, etc. A plotting tool (like gnuplot) is needed in order to do this.

Additionally, if a monitoring tool has been used, then different data from it is collected too. Depending on the monitoring tool, it can generate charts directly, or it can be used another tool for plotting the output from monitoring tool (for example, sar from systat library can be used for monitoring, and k-sar tool for plotting the sar output)
